[MUSIC PLAYING]
[RUNNING WATER]
[WIND BLOWING]
>> Shofuso means
pine breeze villa.
[RUNNING WATER]
The house was designed by
Junzo Yoshimura in 1953,
and is considered one of the
most authentic Japanese sites
outside of Japan today.
[RUNNING WATER]
>> The Japanese house was
originally designed to be
displayed at the Museum
of Modern Art in New York,
and was designed by an
architect named Yoshimura Junzo.
He traveled to a number
of sites in Japan,
and picked one
for the main model
that he based his house on.
That building was
the guest quarters
of the Kojo-in Temple in Otsu,
just outside of Kyoto, Japan.
He adapted it to make
it a little bit more
modern, a little more
interesting, and a little bit
more accessible.
>> It was built in Nagoya,
reassembled in Manhattan,
and then exhibited for a year
and a half in New York before
being disassembled and moved
to Philadelphia in 1957.
It was moved to the site of
a previous Japanese garden
and structure, the
Buddhist Temple
Gate, that had stood till 1955
until it burned to the ground.
It's a shoin
centered house, which
means it's centered
around a desk,
and would have been
the home of a very
wealthy and educated person.
>> A shoin is a place where
a visitor to the house,
or especially if
it was a scholar,
could sit on the floor, use
the desk as a writing space
or a reading space, and that
would be made more convenient
by the fact that it's lighted
by a window immediately behind
the desk.
That window could
be opened, or it
can be closed off with white
paper screens called shoji.
The shoji have a wooden frame.
Over the wooden
frame, they stretch
a thin layer of mulberry paper.
That allows light to come in,
but it keeps the wind out.
And it also evens
out the light, so
that it doesn't give
you the harsh shadows
that direct sunlight might.
And it's very easy
light to read by,
or to simply spend your time in.
The entrance to the house
compound is through a gate.
The gate is in a
wall that's designed
to reflect castle
walls in Japan,
or the walls around Buddhist
temples, a masonry wall covered
with a flat white stucco
that then has a small tile
roof on top of it.
That wall can be
really beautiful
when the shadows of trees,
branches, fall on it,
or when the light
plays across it
at different times of the day.
>> Some of the distinctive
architectural features
of Shofuso are the
sliding panel doors,
which are actually walls.
The entire building
is surrounded
on the exterior and the
interior with sliding panels
that are either wood on the
exterior, which are the amado,
and protect the house from the
elements, or on the interior,
there are paper doors,
either thin paper doors that
allow light through, called
shoji, on the exterior,
or paper panels that
slide to enclose rooms,
and they're fusuma.
All the panels can be removed
for indoor-outdoor living
to expand the spaces and to
shrink the spaces as they
would have been needed.
Artist Hiroshi Senju,
who is internationally
renowned for his
abstract paintings,
created a series of fusuma
murals entitled "Waterfall"
for our interior.
It's the only installation
of its kind outside of Japan
and represents our waterfalls.
>> Mr. Senju saw the house
and donated these murals,
which represent
waterfalls, to the house.
Waterfalls are an
important symbolic addition
to the house because the water
is designed to symbolically
protect the house from
probably its worst
enemy in the world, fire.
Mr. Senju also takes that
theme and plays it out
a little bit differently
on each wall,
with abstract
sheets of water that
appear to flow down the wall,
painted with a pigment that
picks up the light
and reflects it back
at you in different ways,
depending on the time of day
and the quality of
light in the room.
[RUNNING WATER]
>> Shofuso is at the site of the
first Japanese garden in North
America.
It was built by the Japanese
government for the 1876
Centennial Exposition.
Shofuso's gardens were designed
by landscape architect Tansai
Sano, and incorporate three
different types of gardens
onto our grounds.
We have a pond and hill garden
out in front of the house.
We have a tea garden that
surrounds our teahouse.
And we have a small
courtyard garden,
which is enclosed by the
rest of the building.
>> The central design idea for
the garden around the Japanese
house is that it fits
in with the house,
and makes an integrated whole.
When you sit in the
main space, the space
seems to flow out from
the house, to the veranda,
to the near part of the garden,
to the middle of the garden,
and to the far
part of the garden,
in a very seamless kind
of flow that gives you
a sense that the
house and the garden
are really integrated and
intimately tied to one another.
Part of this comes
from the philosophy
of how nature is actually viewed
in Asia, as opposed to the way
it's viewed in the West.
In the West, we build our houses
to keep the natural world out.
We make strong, solid walls.
We open them up with only
small windows and doors
so that we can close
everything out.
In Japan, the natural
world is invited in.
The seasons are enjoyed
as a natural phenomenon
that everyone appreciates.
The garden is designed
in the same way,
so that the space of the house
and the space of the garden,
while separate, are very much in
conversation with one another.
It allows the viewer to see
both mountains and water--
that is to say, the hills
of the garden that are
made to look like mountains--
and the water that
flows through it.
Those are symbols, in
turn, of yin and yang, yin,
the wet, dark principle
of the universe, yang,
the dry, warm principle
of the universe,
that are also equated
with female and male.
So the garden includes
all these aspects
that make it a
philosophical statement,
as well as a beautiful
thing to look at.
Looking out from the house,
you see not only the garden,
but the things that
are beyond the garden.
And that type of garden is
actually called a shakkei,
a borrowed view garden.
Here at the Japanese
house, we make
it work in a number of ways.
The house was
originally designed
so that we could
look across the pond
and see Memorial Hall,
the large building that
is the last remnant of the
1876 Centennial Celebration.
The various elements
of the garden
all have symbolic meaning.
We have a pair of trees
in the garden that
are both pine trees, but
one is the male pine,
the other is the female pine.
It's not that they are literally
that way, and one has flowers
and the other one doesn't,
but that they are symbolically
shaped so that one looks
large and vertical.
The other looks softer,
gentler, and more horizontal.
Everything in the
garden is thought
of as living and sentient.
Even the trees,
which clearly are
living things, even
though they move much more
slowly than we do, are thought
to have the Buddha nature--
that is to say, they
are sentient beings that
can someday become Buddhas.
Many thinkers even think
of the rocks and the water
as having the Buddha nature,
as being capable of awakening,
or may be more awakened than
any of us are all the time.
[BIRDSONG]
Near the main entrance
to the compound,
there's a piece of stone
that's not Japanese at all.
It's actually a water
stone from China,
taken from the bed of a lake.
And it's limestone that's
been eroded into patterns.
Those patterns are thought of
as reflecting the li in Chinese,
[JAPANESE] in Japanese,
the principles
of the universe, the
logic behind which
the universe works.
Only that kind of
logic allows soft water
to eat away at hard stone.
But time and the
principles of the universe
make beautiful objects out of
even the plainest of stones.
[INSECTS CHIRPING]
One of the great natural
features of the garden
is our pond.
Around the pond, there
are many, many elements
that work together to make
it seem even more like a part
of the natural world.
Of course, if you
are out in a forest,
you would expect a pond
to have some fish in it.
So our pond has koi,
beautiful fish that are bred
and have been bred for
centuries in Japan and China
to have a brilliant coloration
and intriguing patterns.
The koi can't live in
just a still pond, though.
They need oxygen in the water.
And the best way to get the
oxygen naturally into the water
is with a waterfall.
So, we have one that
flows into the pond
and provides a visual
sight to look at.
It also provides the sound of
water flowing into the pond
all the time.
And it helps the koi to breathe,
to have oxygen in their water,
so they can stay alive.
There's also a mulberry tree
planted over the stream leading
into the pond.
And that's a kind of symbolic
way of feeding the fish.
The mulberry berries can drop
off of the tree into the stream
and flow down into the pond.
And then the fish
can enjoy them.
In fact, the fish eat a
lot of other things, too.
But at least symbolically, we
have a whole natural world,
plants feeding the fish,
the fish living in the pond,
the water and the waterfall,
all working together
to make a natural
universe within the walls
of the Japanese garden.
In addition to the natural
elements in our garden,
there are a number of
man-made features, as well.
They're made of stone
that harmonizes nicely
with the natural
stones of the garden.
But they're hand-carved,
beautiful objects
that, in some cases,
are functional, as well.
We have a number of lanterns
in different styles,
one by the pond that's very low,
and whose light could shine out
across the pond in a
beautiful reflection.
That kind of lantern is
called a yukimi doro.
Yukimi has two meanings.
Doro means lantern.
Yukimi can mean to look
at snow, but it can also
mean to look at while moving,
so that you might think
of the change in the reflection
of the light off of the pond
as you walked around it.
There are other lanterns
placed near intersections
of the paths, so that
those areas could
be lighted at night.
In addition, we have two
Buddhist objects in our garden.
One is a pagoda that
was given to the house
by the Mayor of the
city of Kyoto in 1959,
when the house was brought
here from New York.
The second one is a large
statue of the Bodhisattva Jizo.
Jizo is a guardian
of children who
is thought of as a
spiritual force that
can help any child that might
die into their next life.
He stands in one corner of the
garden like a quiet guardian,
keeping watch over
things and just
making sure that our garden
is always peaceful and quiet.
The materials of the house
are almost all very natural.
The wood is hinoki,
an evergreen that
produces a natural insecticide,
like we would think of cedar.
Hinoki is very
easy wood to work.
It has an interesting
property that after, it's
been planed or cut and exposed
to oxygen for a few years,
it becomes harder,
and then becomes
a more durable material.
That allows the
makers of the house
to use it without any finish.
So there's no varnish,
there's no paint, put on it.
The natural color of
the wood can be enjoyed.
And it allows the carpenters to
make complicated, fitted joints
and hold the house together,
almost like a three
dimensional jigsaw puzzle.
Some of those joints are
held together not by a nail,
but by a pin that goes all the
way through the joint from one
side to the other.
The ends of the pin are covered
with kugi kakushi, star shaped
or flower shaped
ornaments that punctuate
the spaces of the beams.
[BIRDSONG]
The roof of the house
is made from layer
upon layer of bark taken
from the hinoki tree.
>> It's a curved roof made of 12
inches of hinoki bark in strips
a half inch wide
by 12 inches long.
150 different people in Japan
still know how to do this.
And when we have
the roof repaired,
we have to bring craftsman over,
and they sit up on the roof,
and they replace
swaths of our roof
till it's 12 inches thick
and ready to withstand
the elements again.
>> For the main part of the
house, there are no gutters,
at least not
suspended by the roof.
The rain falls onto
the roof, comes off,
and there's actually
a stone structure
built into the ground around
the edges of the veranda
to catch the rain and
run it off into the pond.
But the teahouse and the
bathhouse don't work that way.
Their roofs are made of
hinoki shingles rather than
simply hinoki bark.
And they're a
little bit smoother,
so the rain falls a lot faster.
At the corner of
the copper gutters,
there are, instead of
downspouts, chains.
The chains lead the water
simply down to the stream
and away from the house.
And they have the added
benefit that in a light rain,
the sound of the water
makes a light tinkling noise
as it comes down the chain.
It's another example of
how the house, rather
than fighting against
nature, uses nature
to enhance its own beauty.
>> As a traditional
Japanese house,
all visitors to Shofuso
have to remove their shoes.
It's a Japanese
tradition, but it's
also to preserve the materials
that Shofuso is made of.
The tatami mats
are the straw mats
that are on the floor
throughout Shofuso.
They're about an inch
and a half thick.
It's rice straw bound
together, very soft under foot.
The size of the tatami
mats is three foot
by six foot approximately,
which traditionally in Japan, is
the amount of space
one person would
need to live, to sleep, to eat,
and to live through the day.
So a tatami room that
has four tatami mats
would be considered large
enough for four people.
The kitchen that's
attached to Shofuso
would not have been part
of the original structure,
but was added by Junzo Yoshimura
for exhibition purposes.
>> Yoshimura decided to contrast
a little bit with the austerity
of the shoin style.
He would put a kitchen
on the building that
showed the style of a farmhouse
maybe from the late 17th
or early 18th century.
The beams are a lot less
smoothly carved, show a lot
more of their natural form.
And the wood is a
little bit darker.
>> The kitchen is a traditional
17th century Japanese-style
kitchen.
The oven has a basin for broth,
a wok, and a rice cooker.
>> The cabinet on one wall of
the kitchen is one of the last
pieces of furniture that came
with the house when it was
originally brought from
Japan in the 1950s.
This tansu is
designed so that it
has spaces to store
all the things you
might need in the
kitchen, plates, cups,
but also has open work on
a number of the panels,
so that you could actually store
food inside and close it off.
It's what the Amish would
have called a fly safe.
>> The bathhouse has a
traditional Japanese soaking
bath on one side.
And it has a traditional
urinal and squat toilet
on the other side.
>> In the bath, they
use a lot of bamboo.
It's a good place for it because
it's very humid in Japan,
and the bamboo tends to split
if the weather is too dry.
The bamboo can be
laid along the floor,
allowing water to
actually pass through it.
So it can be a good place
to rinse a tea bowl or wash
yourself, and that
sort of thing.
>> We also have a tea garden,
which is a traditional type
of garden that would be outside
of a Japanese teahouse that
guests would make their way
through to come to the teahouse
when they were
called by the host.
>> Off to one side, we have
a small structure called
a teahouse, or chashitsu.
It's a building designed
for serving tea,
especially for
serving tea and what,
in English, we often
call the tea ceremony,
and what in Japanese
is called chanoyu.
Chanoyu is not only the
act of serving that tea.
It's the practice, the
study, the discipline,
of the tea master, who builds
their tea from many elements
and brings their taste
to a kind of perfection.
In a typical roji, or
tea garden, in Japan,
you would find that
the garden is divided
into an outer section
and an inner section,
usually by a gateway
in the middle of it.
Our garden at the
Japanese house,
however, is not divided
by a fence or a gate,
but actually divided
by a stream that passes
through the middle of it.
So when we pass from the outer
garden over a small slab stone
bridge into the inner garden,
we go through the same kind
of psychological
change of intimacy
that happens in a
tea garden in Japan
when you pass through
that central gate.
The path goes
beside a wash basin
called a chozubachi, or
sometimes a tsukubai,
in Japanese.
And right next to that
is a stone lantern,
allowing the visitor to
use that wash basin even
in the dead of night, because
tea ceremonies can be,
of course, performed not only
in the middle of the day,
but any time, day or night.
After washing their hands
and rinsing their mouth
at the stone basin, the guest
would then go into the teahouse
through a small door.
Everyone enters the
teahouse at the same level.
It doesn't matter if you're a
warlord, a captain of industry,
the President of
the United States,
or just an ordinary person.
Everyone has to go into the
room from the floor level up.
And it's a great equalizer.
It makes everyone
in the ceremony
feel as though they're the same
kind of person as the people
next to them.
>> [JAPANESE]
>> The teahouse is for
traditional Japanese tea.
It's a very small room
with a very low ceiling.
There's a small hearth
for heating water.
There's a tokonoma, which is a
ceremonial niche for exhibiting
a scroll and an
ikebana arrangement.
>> Natural materials
are especially important
in the teahouse, where
you're really close to them.
The space is very small,
only about nine feet square.
Through the center
of it, there's
a pillar that is so unfinished
that they left the bark on it,
almost as though the
trees were growing right
through the center of the house.
Other materials in that
part of the building
include woven hinoki strips
to make the ceilings,
and of course, tatami mats.
The Japanese tea ceremony
in the 16th century
generated two concepts
that are thought
of as the sort of ruling
aesthetic principles for tea
practice.
The two ideas are
called wabi and sabi.
Wabi roughly means simplicity,
keeping things simple,
not necessarily taking
shortcuts, but keeping
things simple and undecorated.
You might think of the plain
wooden surfaces of the timbers
in the Japanese houses, a
beautiful example of wabi.
They're not
decorated in any way.
They just use their
own natural shape
as a kind of beauty
in and of itself.
Sabi is a related concept.
It has to do with simplicity,
but it has even more
to do with something being
loved and used over generations,
even hundreds of years.
One of the examples of it that
we see at the Japanese house
is in the repairs
that have been made
to the edges of the veranda.
On a couple of occasions,
we've had Japanese carpenters
visit and repair those parts.
Now, an American carpenter might
simply pull out the whole board
and replace it.
But the Japanese
carpenters instead
will cut a shape that is an
appealing shape into the wood,
take away the old damaged
wood, and replace it
with wood that almost
perfectly matches the old wood.
There's a slight
difference in color,
but that difference points
to the way the house has
been used, loved, and aged.
And it's a very
sabi kind of detail.
In many ways, the design
seems to really reflect
the principles of Zen, the
ideas of bringing yourself
to a centered, quiet place,
setting stably, being where
you are, when you're there.
>> When you're in a tea
room, whether you're the host
or the guest, you should be
completely focused on what
you're doing at
any given moment.
You should not
think about anything
that happened before you
came into the tea room.
You shouldn't think
about what you're
going to do when you go home.
For that moment,
when you're there,
when you're watching
the most prepare tea,
and when you're drinking
it, especially when you're
drinking it, you're
thinking only about what's
happening right in front of you,
the tea that you're drinking,
the preparation that
you're watching.
And also the other
people in the room.
So as we practice tea ceremony,
we practice that focus.
We practice maintaining a
very calm and very tranquil
state of mind.
We want to keep a very tranquil
mood throughout the room.
We want to make sure that
there's nothing that disturbs
the state of mind of the guest.
So it can be a
meditative experience,
if people want it to
be, or even if they're
just sitting and chatting
and have a good time,
there's nothing to
disrupt their good mood.
The scroll that's
hanging in the room today
has a very simple phrase on it.
It's [NON-ENGLISH].
And meaning of that is, tea
and zen are one, one taste.
We often say that the
taste of tea in the bowl
is the taste of Zen.
And so, the scroll
reflects that idea, also.
Zen is, of course, one
branch or sect of Buddhism.
It's a branch where the
primary thing that's emphasized
is Zen, Zen being the
Japanese pronunciation
of the Chinese transliteration
of the Indian term
[INDIAN] meaning
meditation, stillness.
It's a branch of Buddhism that's
all about personal experience
and personal practice.
The ideas of shin,
gyo and so are
three concepts that
are developed out
of the Zen Buddhist world.
In Zen, we talk about ways
to perceive and understand
the world around you.
One way is the ordinary kind
of perception that we have,
which at its best, shows
us all the details, all
the complexities, of life.
On the other hand, after
meditating for a long time,
one attains a state where
all those details cease
to matter completely,
and you are reduced
to the simplest of essences.
Well, that first state with
all the details is called shin.
Shin can be translated as
truth, or simply that state
with all of the meticulous
details of the universe.
Its opposite is called so.
So is written with a
character that means grass.
And these terms originally were
used for calligraphy criticism,
and developed to talk about this
pure, straight form in shin,
the very loose and
cursive form of so.
The Zen practitioner
then learns to understand
that neither the shin
perception of all the details,
nor the so perception
of none of the details,
is really perfect perception.
Perfect perception
comes when you
transcend the
distinction between shin
and so into the perception
called gyo, semi-cursive,
if you take it back to
the calligraphy concept.
At the Japanese house,
those three concepts
show up in a number of ways.
One way is in our pathways.
We have some areas that are
paved with straight stones that
are placed perfectly together in
a very formal, a very straight,
kind of way, that
we would call shin.
In other areas, we have
flagstones or stepping stones
that are separated, that
are in random shapes.
The most random of
those shapes are what
we would call a so pathway.
Between them, you might
think of a pathway
that has straight edges, but
irregular stones in the center.
That would be the
gyo style pathway.
[BIRDSONG]
[MOVING WATER]
>> Since there has been a
Japanese presence at our site
since 1876, and we at this
site have been the repeated
recipients of gifts from
the people of Japan,
starting with that
first garden in 1876,
through the Buddhist temple
gate installed in 1909,
through Shofuso's
installation in 1957,
and then Hiroshi Senju's gift
of fusuma paintings in 2007.
Shufosu is the
physical embodiment
of the longtime
friendship between Japan
and the people of Philadelphia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]